mainstream news gave you some
information they told you everything was
fantastic with the job situation and yet
it's not I'm going to explain why today
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you whenever the jobs
numbers come out there's a few things
that are not detailed they are not
broken down on purpose they're trying to
keep you from knowing the truth but
that's why you're here in today's video
I'm going to show you what's going on
with the job situation that tells us a
very interesting part of what's going on
in the economy so let's break it down
you'll see news like this right every
month us payrolls increased by
216,000 in December much better than
expected wow that I mean that's good
news right and that's the number that
you are going to see that's the one that
will get reported forever you're going
to hear about December numbers you're
going to hear about how fantastic things
were this number of 216 will be the one
that will be repeated there's just a
problem here this is 10 of the past 11
months those numbers were then revised
lower right because remember these are
based on estimates these are these are
not actual numbers and what happens is
you get the original you get the
revision and then you get the
re-revision and most cases it gets
revised
lower not good right because then we're
hearing
216 and the truth is it's actually
probably much lower but it gets worse
than that although don't worry there's
more let me show
you household versus establishment you
see a weird thing going on there right
household shows minus
683 th000 wait a second but what's the
difference there between establishment
that was
216 huh isn't that strange that there's
a difference in between the two and we
haven't seen a number like this
literally since all the layoffs in 2020
something strange is certainly going on
you see the disparity in between the two
right
establishment survey and the household
survey looking at the actual number of
employed people gives you a different
look than you would you know take with
with their with their job's numbers
you think you hear that jobs created but
you actually look at the number of
employed people which in my opinion is a
much more accurate view of
things and those numbers aren't looking
too good you see the difference here in
this
chart one just keeps going up and up and
up and up and up and the other one's
kind of staggered and you see over the
last little while not too good right
especially right now it's a big
difference and the number keeps getting
wider and wider and wider there's one
issue full-time jobs well there's a lot
of full-time jobs going away haven't
seen this since 2020 by the
way and instead we get a lot of part-
timr thanks to of course seasonality
December you know we hire people we need
them for the holidays we need them to do
this and that and then that's it they're
temporary workers thank you very much
you're gone
but don't worry because the next time we
need temporary workers they'll be
counted as new jobs created right it
doesn't show
you how when you look at the totals here
it's very convoluted because you're
saying you know what we have one set of
data and another set of data wait a
second how could that be well look at it
for yourself you could see the full-time
jobs that's that you know Brown orange
type of line and then the blue is the
part-time jobs oh we got lots of
part-time jobs no
worries and this is where really starts
to come together multiple job holders
are currently at a record high and so
that's where the jobs are going you see
people are getting jobs by the way
there's 8 million or something a very
large I believe it's 8 million empty
jobs so we have to keep that in mind as
well but right now the amount of people
that have two three four jobs we've
never seen this before these numbers are
at a record high it's a good sign that
people can get any job okay it's not a
depression in that sense where nobody's
hiring nobody's going into the stores to
shop we're not there it's a different
situation in which you do have people
that are saying okay on the weekends I'm
an Uber driver on the way home from work
I'm an Uber driver but also at the same
time I got my 9 to5 job things like this
are becoming more and more common right
and at the same time you see this
swaying the numbers we have two
different sets two different books if
you did that as an individual you kept
two different books you'd be in trouble
but of course the government they can do
whatever they want and in this case here
they do it on purpose they want to keep
you from knowing the truth but when you
tune into the money GPS you get the real
de of course likely won't end up in your
feed this likely won't be the stuff that
comes up uh above Mr Beast videos but
for those who watch it thank you for
being here you could see that in chart
form looking at this full-time way down
part-time up and then multiple job
holders when you take that all into
account you do see what's happening in
the job situation that's the economy my
friends like this guy says right here
all I'm doing is is working and paying
bills why some are leaving Canada for
more affordable countries so in this
example they're just showing Portugal
but what has happened here is that
people cannot afford their Basics
they're just working working working
working all they're doing is working and
is that very enjoyable doesn't seem like
it right and this has come at a time in
which inflation has picked up to a point
and I have been adamant that
inflation looks to get
worse worse we go three years down the
road things are likely to be more
expensive than they are
today and that should be a concern for
people who are already struggling as it
is so that's real estate that's rent
that's energy that's food taking
everything into account we have this at
the bottom with
Amazon Amazon has been doing something
which they call quiet firing in which
perks and benefits are stripped or
bosses stop providing attention to
certain employees sometimes overtly
showing them the door so make their
lives difficult get rid of everything
that they were used to before you're not
firing hey you're still
employed but you don't have all those
things you did we take away your title
Oh no you're employed haven't fired you
you want to stay around here's a job
okay and this type of thing it's swaying
the numbers as well you see because that
person is losing certain aspects maybe
their pay has been cut okay it could be
anything but the point is they're not
going to show up unemployed they're
technically employed but things have
changed right and maybe they wanted to
build a career they were doing something
but now suddenly Amazon says say you
want to be the J janitor uh yeah you
could be the janitor I know you were the
CTO before I know you were the you know
the seat level executive we don't want
you anymore don't worry about that
though you couldn't be the valet Parker
uh you're still employed here like these
type of things and people will say you
know what forget it I'm out of here oh
you quit wonderful and usually they
actually do give Severance packages in
these circumstances uh they just don't
want any problems here's some money and
that's
it is there a silver lining is there
something that we could look for that's
positive well there are good things that
are occurring right now at least when it
comes to borrowing because rates have
come down 5year fixed rates are dropping
and variable mortgages will soon follow
this is happening in Canada of course
but it's it's also going on uh elsewhere
about a percent down from their Peak
which is great right if you got a you
know borrow well it's getting a little
bit cheaper at least compared to the
peak
this is um basically what we're looking
at here is is with
disinflation okay this inflation they've
talked about and in terms of rent they
say right here we are likely to see more
moderation in
rent we'll see I really don't know but
rent prices were going up and up you
remember that the rents seemed like they
were just sky like doubled in many areas
in just a couple years
doubled what happened to the you know 2%
3% inflation not in most places rents G
have gone crazy have you seen it what
about your area I know I have seen many
examples of a TW bedroom condo
two-bedroom condo that would rent for
$3,000 a month nice areas yes but we're
talking about modern condos which are
you know little boxes shoe boxes do you
have the same thing in your
area you know these are the type of
things that are are a concern
certainly all
right and then we go to this driverless
truck companies plan to ditch human
co-pilots in 2024 self-driving cargo
trucks are safe lower cost according to
the industry critics worry that
Financial pressure is driving the
timeline and I do agree with that
actually they're basically saying look
we can't afford this circumstance we've
got so many problems we need robots we
need automation we need AI all companies
are doing this today so my plea with you
is that you get your situation in order
Amazon themselves has an entire course I
shared this with my um can't remember if
it was the Sunday Sunday um business
class live class I think it was where
they have their own machine learning
course that you could take from Amazon
they want people to understand this they
want people to learn that because number
one you know just like with Henry Ford
he wanted people to be able to actually
afford the vehicles and I think many of
these businesses realize we're about to
put a lot of people out of a job at some
point and so they need to get new skills
so that is very important to understand
You' got to Res skill you've got to
upskill you've got to be able to provide
an income for yourself that is not going
to be eliminated at some point in the
near future maybe it's one year maybe
it's 5 years maybe it's 10 years but you
got to set up that path right now
because maybe your position is safe now
but what if slowly but surely you have
more and more competition in your field
as a result of things that are are
happening be careful do what you can now
today this is 2024 we're just stting a
year okay you got resolutions you got
goals make them happen Okay add this to
your goal list if you are in a situation
in which you need somebody to look at
your whole financial plan you want to
make a financial plan you want to deal
with that money pickle is a group that I
linked up with where there are uh cfps
they have cfps they have fidu Aries
which will help you with your financial
situation they'll take a look at that
and guess what it's free it is a 45
minute free call where they have
promised me it's 45 minute free call
with them you can do that and hopefully
we'll be able to help you within that
time frame all right um I want to thank
you for checking me out today if you
appreciate the information by the way
Link in the description for that top top
of the description click that uh there's
a there's a calendar link where you can
get everything that you need what you
need to do here is give me that thumbs
up if you appreciate the information and
as always I'll see you here tomorrow
take care